The UEFA Champions League is an annual football tournament held between European clubs that have been most successful in the national championships of the previous season. The tournament was introduced by UEFA.

Earlier (from the season 1955/56 to the 1991/92 season), the tournament was called the European Champions Cup. Since the 1992/93 season, the tournament has received the current title, although the format of the tournament was changed from the 1991/92 season.
The debut draw of the most prestigious European club trophy began a month after the first UEFA congress, which took place on March 2, 1955 in Vienna. Interestingly, the idea of ​​organizing the Champions Cup was not born at all in the football union itself.

While members of the newly formed football union focused on creating international competitions involving teams, the editor of the French sports newspaper L'Equipe Gabriel Ano expressed the idea of ​​organizing a club tournament of continental scope. Matches of the new cup of Ano, together with their colleague Jacques Ferrand, were offered to be held in the middle of the week - on Wednesday evening.

According to the rules that were discussed initially by the organizers, it was not necessary to declare exclusively champions of the countries to the competition - L'Equipe believed that it would be more profitable to join the most popular clubs. Sixteen participants in the debut drawing of the new tournament unanimously supported this proposal at a meeting in Paris on April 2-3, 1955. So, on September 4, Sporting and Partizan went 3-3 in the start-up match in Lisbon, while in the match-answer in Belgrade a 5-2 victory was celebrated by the Yugoslavs who qualify for the next round.

The first five trophies went to the Madrid Real Madrid. Other clubs later also succeeded in impressive series - Ajax and Bayern, for example, won the "Big Eagle Cup" three times in a row. At the same time, talking about someone's long-term domination in the most prestigious European Cup is still not worth it. So, for their fourth title after the shock segment in the early 1970's, Amsterdam was waiting 22 years. And the Real's victory in 1998 was the first Madrid triumph after a 32-year pause. Munich, having won the "Valencia" in the final series of after-match penalties of the season - 2000/01, interrupted the 26-year expectation of the fourth trophy.